Unity's physics system past, present and future.
In this video, we'll cover what is unity.
We'll take a step back and we'll look at what libraries, power, unity, physics today.
And we'll also look to the future of unity physics.
Unity is the most widely used, real time interactive platform with tools to create rich projects in
all sorts of platforms.
Unity is powering games, of course, but also architecture, automotive, construction and more.
Unity Version 1.0 was released in 2008, and since it's gained massive popularity as of 2019, 50% of
mobile games are powered by unity.
Over 3 billion devices worldwide use unity software and 90% of AR and VR is powered by Unity as well.
Unity supports cross-platform deployment.
Here's just some of the platforms that Unity supports, including PC console and cross platform mobile.
So what's built in unity at its core is a 3D rendering system.
You can also create great 2D experiences with unity, and unity includes animation, audio rendering
and effects deployment to all those platforms, graphical rendering input and more.
In this course, we'll focus on physics and scripting.
Using Unity uses third party physics systems.
Now, why do they do that?
Because accelerated multi-platform physics is hard to do.
Unity outsources the work to these third party libraries and raps their API to feel more consistent
and unity friendly.
Something of note is that it takes some time for unity to integrate the latest and greatest features
when each of these libraries are updated.
In Unity version 1.0 Unity three D Physics was released using the Physics library.
It wasn't until Unity 4.3 that many 2D features were added, including 2D physics with box two dx.
In the future, unity will be powered by dots, physics or data oriented technology stack.
There are features in public beta available.
The future release is to be determined.
The future of Unity physics will be powered by unity and collaboration with third party library by having.
Let's look at the Physics three D library.
Physics is an open source, scalable multi platform physics solution.
Unity uses this for its three D physics.
It's notable that while physics is on 4.0, unity is integrated only physics 3.4.
In the latest 2019 releases, you can see the delay there.
That unity takes some time to wrap the latest APIs, test them, integrate them and ship them.
What Unity offers is very powerful.
Key features of physics include that it's open source multithreaded and has great memory management.
Box two RD powers unities to DX Physics.
Its key feature is what's called a B or axis aligned bounding box.
This is a very efficient way for unity to check collisions, so running two d games with two D physics
on even slower and older platforms performs well.
Some key features are continuous collision detection or accuracy, convex polygons and circles and collision
groups and categories.
The future of unity physics will be powered by dots or the data oriented technology stack.
At the Game Developer Conference 2019, Unity announced two new physics choices a first party unity
solution and a third party havoc solution.
Powered by Havoc, users will be able to toggle between each of these at any time because the APIs are
identical.
The Unity physics system, which is now available in public beta, has editable C sharp source and is
stateless with no caching.
Thus it's very optimized for multiplayer and easier to understand, read and extend by development teams.
Havoc Physics which is in preview package coming soon, is stateful with caching thus has a much higher
performance, but at the cost of complexity it's also higher fidelity.
Thus the physics rendered is more accurate.
So which physics system is right?
Well, this course will focus on the traditional two rd and three D physics systems in section seven.
We'll take a look at some advanced topics, including briefly covering dots, physics.
Each of these systems has a lot of different benefits and drawbacks.
Each will have a long future.
Within the physics platform, we can see that sections two and five will focus on two D physics.
Sections three, four and six will concentrate on three D physics.
In each of those areas we'll create a complete game using two rd and three D in Section seven.
We'll take a quick look at the future with Unity Dots Physics.
In the next video, Unity's Physics Project settings we'll cover what are Unity Project settings and
which of the settings are most important to our physics needs.
And then we'll experiment with some of these settings inside the Unity editor to see the results.